

---

# appendChild_method

Adds the node newChild to the end of the list of children of this node. If the newChild is already in the tree, it is first removed.



---

# attributes_attribute

A NamedNodeMap containing the attributes of this node (if it is an Element ) or null otherwise.



---

# baseURI_attribute

The absolute base URI of this node or null if the implementation wasn't able to obtain an absolute URI. This value is computed as described in . However, when the Document supports the feature "HTML" [ DOM Level 2 HTML ], the base URI is computed using first the value of the href attribute of the HTML BASE element if any, and the value of the documentURI attribute from the Document interface otherwise.



---

# childNodes_attribute

A NodeList that contains all children of this node. If there are no children, this is a NodeList containing no nodes.



---

# cloneNode_method

Returns a duplicate of this node, i.e., serves as a generic copy constructor for nodes. The duplicate node has no parent; ( parentNode is null .).

Cloning an Element copies all attributes and their values, including those generated by the XML processor to represent defaulted attributes, but this method does not copy any text it contains unless it is a deep clone, since the text is contained in a child Text node. Cloning an Attribute directly, as opposed to be cloned as part of an Element cloning operation, returns a specified attribute ( specified is true ). Cloning any other type of node simply returns a copy of this node.

Note that cloning an immutable subtree results in a mutable copy, but the children of an EntityReference clone are readonly. In addition, clones of unspecified Attr nodes are specified. And, cloning Document , DocumentType , Entity , and Notation nodes is implementation dependent.



---

# compareDocumentPosition_method

Compares the reference node, i.e. the node on which this method is being called, with a node, i.e. the one passed as a parameter, with regard to their position in the document and according to the document order.



---

# DocumentPosition_enumeration

A bitmask indicating the relative document position of a node with respect to another node.

If the two nodes being compared are the same node, then no flags are set on the return.

Otherwise, the order of two nodes is determined by looking for common containers -- containers which contain both. A node directly contains any child nodes. A node also directly contains any other nodes attached to it such as attributes contained in an element or entities and notations contained in a document type. Nodes contained in contained nodes are also contained, but less-directly as the number of intervening containers increases.

If there is no common container node, then the order is based upon order between the root container of each node that is in no container. In this case, the result is disconnected and implementation-specific. This result is stable as long as these outer-most containing nodes remain in memory and are not inserted into some other containing node. This would be the case when the nodes belong to different documents or fragments, and cloning the document or inserting a fragment might change the order.

If one of the nodes being compared contains the other node, then the container precedes the contained node, and reversely the contained node follows the container. For example, when comparing an element against its own attribute or child, the element node precedes its attribute node and its child node, which both follow it.

If neither of the previous cases apply, then there exists a most-direct container common to both nodes being compared. In this case, the order is determined based upon the two determining nodes directly contained in this most-direct common container that either are or contain the corresponding nodes being compared.

If these two determining nodes are both child nodes, then the natural DOM order of these determining nodes within the containing node is returned as the order of the corresponding nodes. This would be the case, for example, when comparing two child elements of the same element.

If one of the two determining nodes is a child node and the other is not, then the corresponding node of the child node follows the corresponding node of the non-child node. This would be the case, for example, when comparing an attribute of an element with a child element of the same element.

If neither of the two determining node is a child node and one determining node has a greater value of nodeType than the other, then the corresponding node precedes the other. This would be the case, for example, when comparing an entity of a document type against a notation of the same document type.

If neither of the two determining node is a child node and nodeType is the same for both determining nodes, then an implementation-dependent order between the determining nodes is returned. This order is stable as long as no nodes of the same nodeType are inserted into or removed from the direct container. This would be the case, for example, when comparing two attributes of the same element, and inserting or removing additional attributes might change the order between existing attributes.

The DocumentPosition enumeration has the following constants of type unsigned short .



---

# firstChild_attribute

The first child of this node. If there is no such node, this returns null .



---

# getFeature_method

This method returns a specialized object which implements the specialized APIs of the specified feature and version, as specified in . The specialized object may also be obtained by using binding-specific casting methods but is not necessarily expected to, as discussed in . This method also allow the implementation to provide specialized objects which do not support the Node interface.



---

# getUserData_method

Retrieves the object associated to a key on a this node. The object must first have been set to this node by calling setUserData with the same key.



---

# hasAttributes_method

Returns whether this node (if it is an element) has any attributes.



---

# hasChildNodes_method

Returns whether this node has any children.



---

# insertBefore_method

Inserts the node newChild before the existing child node refChild . If refChild is null , insert newChild at the end of the list of children.

If newChild is a DocumentFragment object, all of its children are inserted, in the same order, before refChild . If the newChild is already in the tree, it is first removed.



---

# isDefaultNamespace_method

This method checks if the specified namespaceURI is the default namespace or not.



---

# isEqualNode_method

Tests whether two nodes are equal.

This method tests for equality of nodes, not sameness (i.e., whether the two nodes are references to the same object) which can be tested with Node.isSameNode . All nodes that are the same will also be equal, though the reverse may not be true.

Two nodes are equal if and only if the following conditions are satisfied:

- • The two nodes are of the same type.

- • The following string attributes are equal: nodeName , localName , namespaceURI , prefix , nodeValue , baseURI . This is: they are both null , or they have the same length and are character for character identical.

- • The attributes NamedNodeMaps are equal. This is: they are both null , or they have the same length and for each node that exists in one map there is a node that exists in the other map and is equal, although not necessarily at the same index.

- • The childNodes NodeLists are equal. This is: they are both null , or they have the same length and contain equal nodes at the same index. Note that normalization can affect equality; to avoid this, nodes should be normalized before being compared.

For two DocumentType nodes to be equal, the following conditions must also be satisfied:

- • The following string attributes are equal: publicId , systemId , internalSubset .

- • The entities NamedNodeMaps are equal.

- • The notations NamedNodeMaps are equal.

On the other hand, the following do not affect equality: the ownerDocument attribute, the specified attribute for Attr nodes, the isWhitespaceInElementContent attribute for Text nodes, as well as any user data or event listeners registered on the nodes.



---

# isSameNode_method

Returns whether this node is the same node as the given one.

This method provides a way to determine whether two Node references returned by the implementation reference the same object. When two Node references are references to the same object, even if through a proxy, the references may be used completely interchangeably, such that all attributes have the same values and calling the same DOM method on either reference always has exactly the same effect.



---

# isSupported_method

Tests whether the DOM implementation implements a specific feature and that feature is supported by this node.



---

# lastChild_attribute

The last child of this node. If there is no such node, this returns null .



---

# localName_attribute

Returns the local part of the qualified name of this node.

For nodes of any type other than ELEMENT_NODE and ATTRIBUTE_NODE and nodes created with a DOM Level 1 method, such as createElement from the Document interface, this is always null .



---

# lookupNamespacePrefix_method

Look up the prefix associated to the given namespace URI, starting from this node.



---

# lookupNamespaceURI_method

Look up the namespace URI associated to the given prefix, starting from this node.



---

# lookupPrefix_method

Look up the prefix associated to the given namespace URI, starting from this node.



---

# namespaceURI_attribute

The namespace URI of this node, or null if it is unspecified.

This is not a computed value that is the result of a namespace lookup based on an examination of the namespace declarations in scope. It is merely the namespace URI given at creation time.

For nodes of any type other than ELEMENT_NODE and ATTRIBUTE_NODE and nodes created with a DOM Level 1 method, such as createElement from the Document interface, this is always null .



---

# nextSibling_attribute

The node immediately following this node. If there is no such node, this returns null .



---

# nodeName_attribute

The name of this node, depending on its type; see the table above.



---

# nodeType_attribute

A code representing the type of the underlying object, as defined above.



---

# NodeType_enumeration

An integer indicating which type of node this is.

The NodeType enumeration has the following constants of type unsigned short .



---

# nodeValue_attribute

The value of this node, depending on its type; see the table above. When it is defined to be null , setting it has no effect. including if the node is read-only.



---

# normalize_method

Puts all Text nodes in the full depth of the sub-tree underneath this Node , including attribute nodes, into a "normal" form where only structure (e.g., elements, comments, processing instructions, CDATA sections, and entity references) separates Text nodes, i.e., there are neither adjacent Text nodes nor empty Text nodes. This can be used to ensure that the DOM view of a document is the same as if it were saved and re-loaded, and is useful when operations (such as XPointer [ XPointer ] lookups) that depend on a particular document tree structure are to be used.



---

# ownerDocument_attribute

The Document object associated with this node. This is also the Document object used to create new nodes. When this node is a Document or a DocumentType which is not used with any Document yet, this is null .



---

# parentNode_attribute

The parent of this node. All nodes, except Attr , Document , DocumentFragment , Entity , and Notation may have a parent. However, if a node has just been created and not yet added to the tree, or if it has been removed from the tree, this is null .



---

# prefix_attribute

The namespace prefix of this node, or null if it is unspecified.

Note that setting this attribute, when permitted, changes the nodeName attribute, which holds the qualified name, as well as the tagName and name attributes of the Element and Attr interfaces, when applicable.

Note also that changing the prefix of an attribute that is known to have a default value, does not make a new attribute with the default value and the original prefix appear, since the namespaceURI and localName do not change.

For nodes of any type other than ELEMENT_NODE and ATTRIBUTE_NODE and nodes created with a DOM Level 1 method, such as createElement from the Document interface, this is always null .



---

# previousSibling_attribute

The node immediately preceding this node. If there is no such node, this returns null .



---

# removeChild_method

Removes the child node indicated by oldChild from the list of children, and returns it.



---

# replaceChild_method

Replaces the child node oldChild with newChild in the list of children, and returns the oldChild node.

If newChild is a DocumentFragment object, oldChild is replaced by all of the DocumentFragment children, which are inserted in the same order. If the newChild is already in the tree, it is first removed.



---

# setUserData_method

Associate an object to a key on this node. The object can later be retrieved from this node by calling getUserData with the same key.



---

# textContent_attribute

This attribute returns the text content of this node and its descendants. When it is defined to be null , setting it has no effect. On setting, any possible children this node may have are removed and, if it the new string is not empty or null , replaced by a single Text node containing the string this attribute is set to.

On getting, no serialization is performed, the returned string does not contain any markup. No whitespace normalization is performed and the returned string does not contain the white spaces in element content (see the attribute Text.isElementContentWhitespace ). Similarly, on setting, no parsing is performed either, the input string is taken as pure textual content.

The string returned is made of the text content of this node depending on its type, as defined below: