

---

# Adding_Fonts_Used_by_Graphics

# Adding Fonts Used by Graphics

In .eps , .drw , and .cgm graphic formats, it's possible that a font within these files may not appear in PDF output, even though the graphic file has a properly defined font. There are three approaches for handling fonts within graphics:

- • Confine fonts used in these graphics to the basic PDF 14 (Helvetica, Courier, Times-Roman, Symbol, and their variants), which are handled correctly.

- • For fonts other than the basic PDF 14, embed the fonts in your .eps , .drw , and .cgm file . Embedded fonts are also handled correctly.

- • For fonts other than the basic 14 that can't be embedded, use the procedure for font configuration that follows.

## To Add PFA or PFB Fonts

You can install a TTF file if it's not protected against conversion. Check your font license to see if it is allowed.

## To Add TTF Fonts:

## To Create Fonts for the Basic 14 PDF Fonts:



---

# Choosing_PDF_Configuration_Options

# Choosing PDF Configuration Options

When Arbortext Editor and Arbortext Publishing Engine publish PDF files, they use an XML configuration file (a .appcf for PTC APP , a .pdfcf file for FOSI) to specify PDF options.

When publishing PDF, you can choose a PDF configuration file by:

- • choosing a PDF configuration file in the Publish PDF File dialog box.

- • specifying a default PDF configuration file using the set pdfconfigfile command (documented in the Arbortext Command Language Reference ).

You can use or modify one of the PDF configuration files distributed with Arbortext Editor and Arbortext Publishing Engine or create a custom PDF configuration file.



---

# Color_Element

# Color Element

The <Color> element controls how color is handled on a black and white printer. It’s optional and may be used once.

The <Color> element has one optional child Convert Element .

The <Color> element has the following attributes:

The default input from Arbortext Editor is RGB, so all text is RGB. Graphics are not converted.

The color profile settings ( defaultRGB , defaultGray , defaultCMYK ) for the Color element override the color profile settings for the <PDFX> element. You can set defaultRGB = sRGB to revert to the color handling used in versions prior to 5.2 of Arbortext Editor and Arbortext Publishing Engine .



---

# Configuring_Fonts_for_FOSI_Publishing

# Configuring Fonts for FOSI Publishing

The Font element in the PDF configuration file lets you configure font locations, map .tfm file names to fonts, and enable font substitutions, embedding, and subsets. Consult the PDF DTD Element Usage (FOSI) for detailed information on the elements and their attributes.

Arbortext Command Language and the Arbortext Publishing Engine use font metrics to lay out the text of a document into paragraphs and pages. However, a real font is necessary for rendering the page. A real font is a raster or vector font. A raster font (a .pk file) contains pixels for all characters in the font rasterized to a particular resolution. A vector font (a type 1 or true type font) contains instructions for drawing the character outlines.

The FontName element specifies real fonts. These font names may contain Unicode characters. The FontName element has a select attribute that sets the data condition for a particular operating system. If you use select , the value must match one of the tokens generated by the application (for example Windows ), called the selection criteria. A select attribute may include more than one token. If any of them is equal to any of the selection criteria tokens, then the FontName matches. If a select attribute is empty or not present, then a match is assumed. The encoding attribute specifies the encoding to use with the specified font. Eight-bit and multi-byte formats are supported.

The FontName element can name a system font or a font outline file (TTF, PFA, or PFB). The type of file is specified in the type attribute, and the path and file name is specified in the path attribute. If the type is SYS , the path is ignored. If path contains a relative path, the search is relative to the custom\fonts subdirectory. The contents of the FontName tag for a font outline file should be the name of the font as represented in the outline file.

The FontName element has a simulate attribute that can specify the kind of simulation (such as bold or italic) to apply to the font. The simulateMode attribute specifies how to apply the simulation, either by modifying the font display within the PDF (by displaying characters at an angle for italic or through multiple registrations for bold) or by setting a flag that tells the PDF viewer to render the simulation.

The Map element associates the name of a .tfm file with a font. Multiple real fonts may be listed, but Arbortext Editor and Arbortext Publishing Engine use only the first match. This allows the select attribute to determine which font is used on a given platform.

For fonts that are not specified in FontName , are not mapped in this file, and do not have the specified font face available, you can use the Simulation elements Bold and Italics to simulate bold and italic faces. Use simulated bold, italic, and bold-italic font styles for CJK fonts and Arial Unicode MS, which don't have bold or italic faces.

The Locations element can specify directories where the direct PDF process searches for font files.

The FontPath element specifies PK raster font files. The dpi attribute specifies the resolution of the fonts. The contents of the element are the path to the .pk file relative to the pixels directory.

You can specify Substitute to use a different font in the PDF file than was used in the original file. The substitute font must have the same font metrics as the original font. Arbortext Editor and Arbortext Publishing Engine use the first replacement that matches the selection criteria.

Embedding lets you select the fonts that are embedded or prevent embedding in the PDF file. The subsetting attribute allows you to control whether to embed the whole font or just the characters needed by the PDF file.



---

# Configuring_Security_Options

# Configuring Security Options

If you want to apply security options to PDF files you create, you need to modify the PDF configuration file to specify the security options.



---

# Creating_Document_Properties

# Creating Document Properties

For information on how to define standard or user-defined metadata and document properties for a PDF file in your Arbortext Styler stylesheet, refer to Passing Metadata to PDF Output in Arbortext Styler help.

Metadata definitions in the .style file are supported in all print and PDF outputs — PTC APP , FOSI, and XSL-FO.



---

# Creating_PDF_Bookmarks_Using_Arbortext_Styler

# Creating PDF Bookmarks Using Arbortext Styler

PDF bookmarks created in this way are supported in PDF output generated by the PTC APP , FOSI, and XSL-FO publishing engines.

In Arbortext Styler , you can elect to generate a table of contents (TOC) whose entries will form the bookmarks in your PDF. This can be separate from the main table of contents for the document if required and be configured to include your own set of entries. Refer to Table of Contents Overview for information.



---

# Creating_PDF_Bookmarks_Using_FOSI

# Creating PDF Bookmarks Using FOSI

You can create bookmarks using markup illustrated in the following example in your stylesheet.

You can open the PDF to the first page, open the bookmark panel, and scale the page to fit in the window by placing the following anywhere in a document (or in a FOSI that places it anywhere in the document) using the following atidmd:DocView example:

```
<atidmd:DocumentMetaData source="atend">
<atidmd:DocView bookmarks="auto" mode="bookmarks"
fit="fitPage" destination="">
</atidmd:DocView>
</atidmd:DocumentMetaData>
```

The destination attribute defaults to the page on which the atidmd:DocView tag appears. If a valid named destination name is placed in the destination attribute, the document will open at the page on which the named destination appears. A named destination can be created by inserting a link target at the desired point in the document, or adding an ID to a tag at that location.

You can also generate an atidmd:DocumentMetaData node at the beginning of a document with a source=”atend” attribute, and also an atidmd:DocumentMetaData node at the end of the root node content. Have the FOSI produce the following at beginning of the document, which has the effect of disabling automatic bookmarks:

```
<atidmd:DocumentMetaData source="atend">
<atidmd:DocView mode="bookmarks" fit="fitPage" destination="">
</atidmd:DocView></para>
</atidmd:DocumentMetaData>
```

Then have the FOSI produce the following at the end of document:

```
<atidmd:DocumentMetaData>
<atidmd:Outline>
<atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Title>Book title</atidmd:Title>
<atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Title>Chapter 1 Title</atidmd:Title>
</atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Title>Chapter 2 Title</atidmd:Title>
</atidmd:Bookmark>
</atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Bookmark state="closed">
<atidmd:Title>List of Figures</atidmd:Title>
<atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Title>Figure 1</atidmd:Title>
</atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Bookmark>
<atidmd:Title>Figure 2</atidmd:Title>
</atidmd:Bookmark>
</atidmd:Bookmark>
</atidmd:Outline>
</atidmd:DocumentMetaData>
```

The text variables used for links (such as bookmarks.txt in the following example) must be declared hotlinks to provide the bookmark destination using the _gtlink PI.

```
<stringdecl textid="docinfo.txt">
<stringdecl textid="chapter-bookmarks.txt" hotlink="1">
<stringdecl textid="book-title.txt">
<stringdecl textid="bookmarks.txt" hotlink="1">
<stringdecl textid="figures.bookmark.txt" hotlink="1">
Book eic:
<usetext source='!<atidmd:DocumentMetaData source="atend"></atidmd:DocumentMetaData>!'
placemnt="before"></usetext>
<savetext textid="chapter-bookmarks.txt" placemnt="before" conrule="\\">
<savetext textid="bookmarks.txt" placemnt="after"
conrule='!<atidmd:Bookmark><atidmd:Title>!,book-title.txt,!</atidmd:Title>!,
chapter-bookmarks.txt,!</atidmd:Bookmark>!'>
<usetext source='!<atidmd:DocumentMetaData><atidmd:DocInfo>!,docinfo.txt,!</atidmd:DocInfo>
<atidmd:Outline>!,bookmarks.txt,
!<atidmd:Bookmark state="closed"><atidmd:Title>List of Figures</atidmd:Title>!,figures.bookmark.txt,
!</atidmd:Bookmark></atidmd:Outline></atidmd:DocumentMetaData>!'
placemnt="after"></usetext>
```

## Related topics

- • Publishing a document as a PDF file

- • Automatic bookmarks in PDF files

- • Links in a PDF file



---

# Documentation_Element

# Documentation Element

The <Documentation> element provides content that describes the PDF configuration file.

The <Documentation> element has no child elements or attributes. The <Documentation> element is optional and may only be used once.



---

# Font_Element

# Font Element

The <Font> element configures font locations, maps .tfm file names to fonts, and enables font substitutions, embedding and subsets.

The <Font> element has the following child elements:

The <Font> element has one attribute, bitmapResolution . The default target resolution for bitmap fonts is 600 DPI.



---

# General_Element

# General Element

The <General> element controls a variety of aspects of the PDF file.

The <General> element has the following child elements:

The <General> element has one attribute, fixupPageSizes = yes | no . If set to yes , it reconciles differences in page size between the front and back of a sheet. The height will be the larger of the two page heights and the width will be the larger of the two page widths. The default is no .

If a page dimension is increased, the content of the page will be centered within that dimension. Page dimensions are never decreased.



---

# Label_Element

# Label Element

The <Label> element provides a title for the PDF configuration file. The <Label> element is optional and may only be used once.

The <Label> element has no child elements or attributes.



---

# Linking_Between_PDF_Files

# Linking Between PDF Files

The procedures that follow show how to link from a PDF to a page number and a named destination in another PDF file.

## To Link to a Page Number in the Target PDF

## To Link to a Named Destination in the Target PDF

If the target is on an element that is also included in the table of contents, such as a Title tag, the link will target the table of contents instead of the location in the document. The two anchors have the same name, and only the first is recognized.

## Related topics

- • Publishing a document as a PDF File

- • Automatic bookmarks in PDF files



---

# PDF_DTD_Element_Usage_(FOSI)

# PDF DTD Element Usage (FOSI)

FOSI publishing supports the elements described in the following sections for configuring PDF options. The document type for FOSI PDF configuration files ( .pdfcf ) is located at:

```
Arbortext-path
\doctypes\pdfconfig\pdfconfig.dtd
```

The elements are organized according to the hierarchy within the DTD.



---

# Using_FOSI_Publishing_Engine_for_PDF

# Using FOSI Publishing Engine for PDF

You can publish PDF with the FOSI publishing engine by sending publishing requests to Arbortext Publishing Engine and specifying the FOSI print engine in the stylesheet, by having Arbortext Styler running with Arbortext Editor , or by having a Print Composer license on Arbortext Editor .



---

# Using_PTC_APP_Publishing_Engine_for_PDF

# Using PTC APP Publishing Engine for PDF

You may publish PDF or PostScript output. Separate configuration files support these actions.

For information about PDF configuration files supported by the PTC APP print engine, please refer to PDF Configuration Files for PTC APP



---

# Watermarks

# Watermarks

Watermarks can underlay output pages for formatting, printing, or publishing a PDF. The methods for specifying watermarks for PDF differ between the PTC Advanced Print Publisher and FOSI engines.