

---

# Floating_structures

A float is a vertical container. It holds galley material that does not appear in sequence with the galley but rather in one of the many float areas available in the page layout. These areas are the top or bottom of the page, the top or bottom of any span, and the top or bottom of any column.

Floating material belongs to one of many float classes, and within a class multiple floats retain their galley order. For example, footnotes are floats that belong to the footnote class, and they appear in the page layout in the same order as they originally appeared in the instance.

The oid attribute indicates the element that starts the float.

The class attribute indicates the float class. The class also contains a float occurrence modifier. Repeating floats may appear many times, while once floats may only appear once. Applications may be written to ignore repeating floats and process once floats according to the class name.

The flid attribute (float identifier) provides a unique number for each float in a class.

The pagetype attribute defines the relationship between a float and its point of reference.

The width attribute specifies the width of the content.

```
<!ELEMENT Float ((Row | Line)*)>
<!ATTLIST Float
oid %oid; #REQUIRED
class CDATA #IMPLIED
flid CDATA #IMPLIED
pagetype CDATA #IMPLIED
width %dimen; #IMPLIED >
```



---

# Galley_structures

Galley refers to the running text and tables that are laid out into columns during page composition.

Row is a horizontal container associated with tables that hold one or more entries. A table is made up of rows, some of which are header rows and some of which are footer rows. The oid attribute indicates the element that starts the row.

Entry is a vertical container that holds the material that appears in a table cell. This material is typeset using the width of the entry (given by the width attribute). An entry may span columns ( hSpan ) and rows ( vSpan ). The oid attribute indicates the element that starts the entry.

Line is a horizontal container that holds text, graphics, or equations. Line numbering applications focus on the start and end of each line. If an element forced the start of a line, this is indicated by the oid attribute.

```
<!ELEMENT Row (Entry+)>
<!ATTLIST Row
oid %oid; #IMPLIED
number NMTOKEN #IMPLIED >
<!ELEMENT Entry ((Line | Row)*)>
<!ATTLIST Entry
oid %oid; #IMPLIED
number NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
hSpan NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
vSpan NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
width CDATA #IMPLIED >
<!ELEMENT Line ((Text | Graphic | Equation)*)>
<!ATTLIST Line
oid %oid; #IMPLIED
y %dimen; #IMPLIED >
```



---

# Layout_structure

A .layout file describes the page structures that result from the composition process applied to a source document. A typical .layout file will describe one or more Page structures.

The Layout element's date attribute holds the creation date in the form DD-MM-YYYY . The file attribute holds the system path of the source document, if available.

```
<!ELEMENT Layout (Page*)>
<!ATTLIST Layout
date CDATA #IMPLIED
file CDATA #IMPLIED >
```



---

# Page_level_structures

A Page is a vertical layout container that holds an optional header, zero or more spans, and an optional footer. Page-top floats may appear after the header and Page-bottom floats may appear before the footer. Pages are numbered starting with 1 for the first page. The optional oid attribute indicates the element that forces the start of the page, if any.

Header and Footer are generated by the stylesheet. They may also contain information that is derived from the document or from the part of the document that is currently displayed. The header and footer are usually ignored by applications that move layout information back to the document.

Span is a horizontal layout container that holds one or more columns. For example, a page may have a title that spans the page, a three column span for text, and another one column span for a table. The optional oid attribute specifies the element in the document that forces the start of any such span.

Spans are numbered, starting with 1 for the first span on a page. The columns attribute specifies the maximum number of columns that a span can contain. Some of the columns in a span may be missing. The width attribute specifies the width of each column in a span measured in points.

Column is a vertical layout container that holds lines of galley material or tables. Columns are numbered, starting with 1 for the first column in a span. The oid attribute indicates the element that forces the start of any such column.

```
<!ELEMENT Page ((Header? , Float*, (Span+, Float*)?, Footer?))>
<!ATTLIST Page
oid %oid; #IMPLIED
number NMTOKEN #IMPLIED >
<!ELEMENT Header ((Line | Row)*)>
<!ELEMENT Footer ((Line | Row)*)>
<!ELEMENT Span (Float*, (Column+ , Float*)?)>
<!ATTLIST Span
oid %oid; #IMPLIED
number NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
columns CDATA #IMPLIED
width %dimen; #IMPLIED >
<!ELEMENT Column (Float*, ((Line | Row)+, Float*)?)>
<!ATTLIST Column
oid %oid; #IMPLIED
number CDATA #IMPLIED >
```



---

# Text_level_structures

Text level structures are the visible objects that appear on the page. They include text, graphics, and equations. Rules and leaders are ignored by line numbering applications.

Text refers to a sequence of characters that are displayed one font. The concept of a word does not exist, because a string of characters includes space characters. If implemented, the text element may contain a string of characters as PCDATA, otherwise it is empty.

The oid , sOffset , and eOffset parameters can be used to locate the exact substring in the source document that corresponds to a text element. If the text fragment ended in a discretionary hyphen (inserted by the formatting engine), the hyphen character is indicated by the hyphen attribute.

Graphic is an object that will be rendered as an image based on data outside of the document instance (for example, a . gif file). The file attribute gives the location of the file.

Equation is an object that will be rendered as a mathematical equation by the Arbortext formatting engine. Equations may be of two types, either display or inline.

```
<!ELEMENT Text (#PCDATA) >
<!ATTLIST Text
oid %oid; #REQUIRED
sOffset %offset; #IMPLIED
eOffset %offset; #IMPLIED
hyphen NMTOKEN #IMPLIED
x %dimen; #IMPLIED >
<!ELEMENT Graphic EMPTY>
<!ATTLIST Graphic
oid %oid; #REQUIRED
x %dimen; #IMPLIED
file CDATA #IMPLIED >
<!ELEMENT Equation EMPTY>
<!ATTLIST Equation
oid %oid; #REQUIRED
x %dimen; #IMPLIED
type (display|inline) #IMPLIED >
```



---

# The_common_entities

The following entities are declared in the Layout DTD, and are used for declaring attributes that point back into the document or store dimensions.

```
<!ENTITY % oid "CDATA" > <!--vdid,df,genno-->
<!ENTITY % offset "NMTOKEN" > <!--zero based offset-->
<!ENTITY % dimen "CDATA" > <!--dimension in pt, e.g 1.25-->
```